docs: Add documentation on experiment tracking. (#257)
foundation-model-stack/fms-hf-tuning: docs/experiment-tracking.md

# Experiment Tracker

Experiment tracking is an optional feature of this repo. We have introduced experiment tracking to help in systematically recording hyperparameters, model configurations, and results from each experiment automatically and with the help of third party trackers like [Aimstack](https://aimstack.io).

Tracking can be enabled by passing a config in the [Training Arguments](https://github.com/foundation-model-stack/fms-hf-tuning/blob/a9b8ec8d1d50211873e63fa4641054f704be8712/tuning/config/configs.py#L131)
with the name of the enabled trackers passed as a list.

> ```

Author: The readme explains most of how the code is to be worked around if sft trainer is used as a library. There's a section below which explains how the arguments can be passed via commandline if using sft trainer main function, is that what you mean?

# Experiment Tracker

> Experiment tracking is an optional feature of this repo. We have introduced experiment tracking to help in systematically recording hyperparameters, model configurations, and results from each experiment automatically and with the help of third party trackers like [Aimstack](https://aimstack.io).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Experiment tracking is an optional feature of this repo. We have introduced experiment tracking to help in systematically recording training hyperparameters, model configurations, and artifacts (loss, grad_norm etc.) from each experiment automatically with the help of third party trackers like [Aimstack](https://aimstack.io).
```

> Tracking can be enabled by passing a config in the [Training Arguments](https://github.com/foundation-model-stack/fms-hf-tuning/blob/main/tuning/config/configs.py#L131)

Reviewer: ([Training Arguments]) lets use a permalink here

> with the name of the enabled trackers passed as a list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with the name trackers to be enabled passed as a list.
```
?

```
from tuning import sft_trainer

training_args = {
    ..
    ..

>     trackers: ["aim", "file_logger"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "trackers": ["aim", "file_logger"]
```

}

sft_trainer.train(train_args=training_args,....)
```

> For each of the requested trackers the code expects you to pass a config to the `sft_trainer.train` function as well which can be specified as the `tracker_conifgs` argument [here](https://github.com/foundation-model-stack/fms-hf-tuning/blob/main/tuning/sft_trainer.py#L76) details of which are present below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each of the requested trackers the code expects you to pass a config to the `sft_trainer.train` function which can be specified through `tracker_conifgs` argument [here](https://github.com/foundation-model-stack/fms-hf-tuning/blob/main/tuning/sft_trainer.py#L76) details of which are present below.
```

> 

Reviewer: lets use permalink here since its a link to a specific line in the code.

> The list of available trackers and their details are as follows,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The list of available trackers and their details are as follows
```

> ## Tracker Configs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Tracker Configurations
```

## File Logging Tracker

> [File Logger](../tuning/trackers/filelogging_tracker.py) is an inbuilt tracker which can be used to dump contents of the loss curve generated while training to a file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[File Logger](../tuning/trackers/filelogging_tracker.py) is an inbuilt tracker which can be used to dump training loss at every log interval to a file.
```

> Currently File Logger is enabled by default and will dump the loss curve of a training to a default file path specified [here](../tuning/config/tracker_configs.py) inside the output folder passed during training.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently File Logger is enabled by default and will dump loss at every log interval of a training to a default file path specified [here](../tuning/config/tracker_configs.py) inside the output folder passed during training.
```

> To override the location of file logger please pass an instance of the [FileLoggingTrackerConfig](../tuning/config/tracker_configs.py) in the `tracker_configs` argument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To override the location of file logger please pass an instance of the [FileLoggingTrackerConfig](../tuning/config/tracker_configs.py) to `tracker_configs` argument.
```

```
from tuning import sft_trainer
from tuning.config.tracker_configs import FileLoggingTrackerConfig, TrackerConfigFactory

training_args = {
    ..
    ..

>     trackers: ["file_logger"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "trackers": ["file_logger"]
```

> training_args = new TrainingArguments(

Reviewer: is this `new` needed? 🤔

}

logs_file = "new_train_logs.jsonl"

tracker_configs = TrackerConfigFactory(
    file_logger_config=FileLoggingTrackerConfig(
        training_logs_filename=logs_file
        )
    )

> sft_trainer.train(train_args=training_args, tracker_configs=tracker_configs,....)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sft_trainer.train(train_args=training_args, tracker_configs=tracker_configs,...)
```

```

Currently File Logging tacker supports only one argument and this file will be placed inside the `train_args.output` folder.

## Aimstack Tracker

To enable [Aim](https://aimstack.io) users need to pass `"aim"` as the requested tracker.

When using Aimstack, users need to specify additional arguments which specify where the Aimstack database is present and what experiment name to use
for tracking the training.

> Aimstack supports either a local (`filesystem path`) based db location or a remote (`aim_server:port`) based databse location.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Aimstack supports either a local (`filesystem path`) based db location or a remote (`aim_server:port`) based database location.
```

See Aim [documentation](https://aimstack.readthedocs.io/en/latest/using/remote_tracking.html) for more details.

> After [initialising a repo](https://aimstack.readthedocs.io/en/latest/quick_start/setup.html#initializing-aim-repository), users can specify the location of the

Reviewer: Should we also provide commands to initialise a aim repo, what you think?

Author: lets leave that to the aim documentation..it is aim specific.

repo either local or remote.

> For a local aim database where `aim_repo` should point to the path of where the Aimstack repo is present,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a local aim database where `aim_repo` should point to the path of where the initiased Aimstack repo is present,
```

```
from tuning import sft_trainer
from tuning.config.tracker_configs import AimConfig, TrackerConfigFactory

training_args = {
    ..

>     trackers: ["aim"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "trackers": ["aim"]
```

}

tracker_configs = TrackerConfigFactory(
    aim_config=AimConfig(
        experiment="experiment-name",
        aim_repo=<path to the repo>
        )
    )

sft_trainer.train(train_args=training_args, tracker_configs=tracker_configs,....)
```

 or, for a remote server where aimstack database is running at `aim://aim_remote_server_ip:aim_remote_server_port`

```
from tuning import sft_trainer
from tuning.config.tracker_configs import AimConfig, TrackerConfigFactory

training_args = {
    ..

>     trackers: ["aim"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "trackers": ["aim"]
```

}

tracker_configs = TrackerConfigFactory(
    aim_config=AimConfig(
        experiment="experiment-name",
        aim_remote_server_ip=<url of the server>,
        aim_remote_server_port=<port of the server>
        )
    )

sft_trainer.train(train_args=training_args, tracker_configs=tracker_configs,....)
```

The code expects either the `local` or `remote` repo to be specified and will result in a `ValueError` otherwise.

> See [AimConfig](https://github.com/foundation-model-stack/fms-hf-tuning/blob/main/tuning/config/tracker_configs.py#L25) for more details.

Reviewer: lets use permalink since its pointing to a line in the file.
